# Data-Bootcamp-Final-Project
Predicting County-Level Partisan Preference in the United States

This paper aims to examine the relationship between demographic subsets and partisan voting patterns using county-level data from the 2020 election. Alongside conducting a statistical inquiry, this paper may assist in policy-making and strategy development for both parties, as the logistic regression, random forest, and decision tree classification models assist in predicting the partisan lean of a county by relying upon racial, educational, occupational, economic, and geographical indicators. For the most part, these models predominantly confirm that demographic inputs are structural indicators of a county’s partisan preference. As expected, I find that racial, occupational, and educational variables tend to have the strongest coefficients. However, surprisingly, most states do not meaningfully predict whether a county votes Democrat or Republican. Democratic and Republican Party strategists should employ the interactive features of this model to tailor their campaign strategies for each stakeholder. They will also benefit from mapping out the probability of each county in the United States by their likelihood of party affiliation, resulting in an efficient allocation of campaign funds and resources. Although this model is programmed on retrospective data, the relative stability of demographic variables in counties may suggest that these trends will hold at least in the short-term. Therefore, this paper will conclude with some insights and recommendations for the policymakers and strategists of both parties, especially for the 2026 Midterm Elections and the 2028 Presidential Elections. 
